# Metadata
Metadata (data about data) is required for all content posted to the MTC Open Data site. Content will not be posted until its metadata has been reviewed and approved so be sure to include the time required to review the metadata if it needs to be posted by a specific date.

Placeholders for next section
Prefer metadata created in ArcGIS product
For non-spatial resources, metadata can be submitted using Microsoft Word or other text document
How GitHub relates

## Default metadata requirements for Open Data content:
  1. Title- Limited to the name of the content itself. For point-in-time and serial releases a date, as either year, month and year, or version number can be included. All other information is to be placed in the summary or/and description metadata sections. 
  2. Summary/Purpose - 1-2 lines describing the resource.
  3. Description/Abstract - Detailed information regarding the resource. Information can include, but is not limited to, the following: What it is, intended uses, limitations on use, and how it was developed (including identification of third-party data/resources used in its development).
  4. Contact information for resource developer - Name, title, phone number, e-mail address, agency name, and building address. Position or unit names can also be used, and in some cases are preferrable as the creator may leave or change roles and the time cost of updating resource metadata is not insignificant if the person was a prolific developer of public resources.
  5. Date of resource - Day, month, and year of the resource. One thing to consider here is the date of any source data used in its development. A resource created today using data that is six months old is really six months old, not current.
  6. Date of resource release - Day, month, and year the resource was approved as final, released as part of a document, or received official status in some form. If posting to the Open Data site constitutes release of the resource the Data Administrator will fill out the release date.
  7. Date of update - For a resource that has been updated, rather than released as a new version, the day, month, and year the update was completed.
  8. Field descriptions - A definition must be provided for every table column. This covers both shapefile/feature set attribute tables and stand-alone data (spreadsheet, DBF, CSV, etc.). If the values in a column use codes to represent a limited range of values (i.e. numeric codes used for counties, acronymns used for housing types, etc.) then definitions need to be provided for each code value as well. 

## Metadata related to content using one or more third-party resources must:
  1. Prominantly state the third-party that created it,
  2. Identify the final/adopted document, plan, or policy the resource was used for,
  3. State that the data may not be the most current version available as it is not an MTC resource,
  4. State that the third-party is responsible for the content and quality of the resource,
  5. Include either a either a URL to the third-party's website where the public can obtain the resource for themselves or provide contact information for the third-party person/department the public can contact to obtain the resource, 
  6. Utilize the same metadata generated by the resource creator/originator (MTC specific information can be added if necessary), and
  7. Apply the license used by the third-party for their data. If the third-party does not have a set license, the MTC will use the most restrictive open data license as a default.
